Yes or no decisions are very
common in business problems.
In prescriptive analytics, yes or
no decisions are modeled
with binary variables.
A binary variable takes on a value of 0 or
1.
In this video,
we discuss three business problems that
lead to binary optimization models.
A company is considering using magazine
outlets for an advertising campaign.
The company has identified
seven publishers.
Each publisher breaks down the subscriber
base into a number of groups
based on demographics and location.
The company has set a budget for
the advertising campaign and
wants to maximize the number of
subscribers exposed to its ads.
The company wants to determine
which publishers to select and
how many groups to purchase
from each publisher.
Clearly, the selection of a publisher
requires a yes or no decision.
That is,
a publisher is either selected or not.
Once a publisher is selected,
a second decision
must be made regarding the number
of subscriber groups to purchase.
The model for this problem must take into
consideration that no subscriber groups
can be purchased from a publisher
that has not been selected.
It also must consider that when
two publishers are competitors,
the company wants to select
amongst one of them.
Finally, the model should take into
account that there is a fixed cost for
engaging a publisher.
This fixed cost is paid for
every publisher that the model selects.
The binary decision variables can be
used to model all these constraints.
Now, consider another situation.
A company's establishing a new business
to serve customers in a region
around the Cincinnati, Ohio area.
The company has identified
16 key market areas and
wants to establish regional
offices to meet the goal
of being to able to travel to all
key markets within 60 minutes.
The company has gathered data on
travel times, in minutes, between each
pair of cities and would like to create
a model to answer the following questions.
What is the minimum number of
regional offices required to meet
the company’s goal?
Suppose that the company
changes the goal to 90 minutes.
So what will be the best solution?
How many markets can be covered with
4 regional offices within a travel
time of 60 minutes?
The answers to these questions would
help the company establish an original
office network that balances service and
cost.
While being within 60 minutes of all
these customers may be desirable,
the cost may be too high.
A model for this problem would require yes
or no variables, one for each location.
The value of these variables
will indicate whether or
not to choose the location to
establish a regional office.
Given a table of travel times,
it can be determined
the set of cities covered by a location
that is selected for a regional office.
For example, if Cincinnati is selected,
then this regional office
can reach in 60 minutes or
less those customers in Brookville,
Middletown, Hamilton, and Florence.
A regional office in Middletown
would cover Dayton, Beavercreek,
Hamilton, Cincinnati, and Florence.
A solution to this problem will likely
have a few cities that are covered by more
than one regional office.
Let's go through one more example.
Forest planning models prescribe
which areas to harvest
to identify demand in each
period over a planning horizon.
Ideally, forest planning models
would include environmental concerns
related to wildlife protection,
erosion, water quality, and
preservation of scenic beauty.
However, analysts have not found
a direct way of formulating these
multiple concerns in models to
determine harvest patterns.
Instead, proxy management
options have been established.
The most common is
the so-called adjacency, or
maximum opening harvesting constraint.
These constraints establish
the maximum contiguous area
that may be harvested
in a given time period.
Neighboring areas can then be harvested
only when the trees in the first
area have grown to a minimum size.
The resulting patterns help
with wildlife protection.
For example, elks will not feed
on openings created by harvesting
unless they are relatively near
the protection provided by grown trees.
Mandated maximum contiguous areas that
can be harvested are between 75 and
125 acres,
depending on the country or region.
Forest engineers configure harvesting
blocks within the maximum allowed area.
Models that create visible harvesting
patterns require yes or no decisions
to select the blocks to be harvested and
to impose the adjacency constraints.
These three decision problems are a small
sample of the wide applicability
of optimization models
with binary variables.
The applications that we just discussed
come from three different areas,
advertising, logistics, and forestry.
There are many more in areas such as
network design in supply chain management,
portfolio selection in finance,
and power generation in energy.
In the next video, you will learn how
to build models with binary variables.